[WIP] [docs] Dagster + dbt guide (#8714)
dagster-io/dagster: docs/content/integrations/dbt.mdx

---

> title: Dagster with dbt

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Using Dagster with dbt"
```

Suggesting we make the page title match the H1/title on the page itself.

description: Dagster can orchestrate dbt alongside other technologies.
---

## Using dbt with Dagster

Dagster orchestrates dbt alongside _other technologies_, so you can combine dbt with Spark, Python, etc. in a single workflow. Dagster's software-defined asset (SDA) abstractions make it simple to define data assets that depend on specific dbt models, or to define the computation required to compute the sources that your dbt models depend on.

This guide focuses on how to work with `dbt` models through the SDA framework, which we recommend for most use cases.

> ## dbt Models and Software-Defined Assets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## dbt models and software-defined assets
```

Making the casing consistent.

You can configure this resource and add it to your dbt assets by doing the following:

```python
from dagster import with_resources
from dagster_dbt import dbt_cli_resource

dbt_assets = with_resources(
    load_assets_from_dbt_project(...),
    {
        "dbt": dbt_cli_resource.configured(
            {"project_dir": "path/to/dbt_project"}
        )
    }
)
```

## Scheduling dbt jobs

Once you have your dbt assets, you can define a job that runs some or all of these assets on a schedule:

```python
from dagster import ScheduleDefinition, define_asset_job

run_everything_job = define_asset_job("run_everything", selection="*")

# only my_model and its children
run_something = define_asset_job("run_something", selection="my_model*")

@repository
def my_repo():
    return [
        dbt_assets,
        ScheduleDefinition(
            job=run_something,
            cron_schedule="@daily",
        ),
        ScheduleDefinition(
            job=run_everything,
            cron_schedule="@weekly",
        )
    ]
```

> See the docs on [running jobs on a schedule](https://docs.dagster.io/concepts/partitions-schedules-sensors/schedules#running-the-scheduler) to learn more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to the [Schedule documentation](/concepts/partitions-schedules-sensors/schedules#running-the-scheduler) for more info on running jobs on a schedule.
```

This is also a nit - sorry.

            {"con_string": "..."}
        )
    }
)
```

## Understanding AssetKeys

In Dagster, each asset has an asset key to identify it. Dagster automatically generates these keys for each dbt node in the project as well as the sources for each node.

For models, seeds, and snapshots, the default asset key will be the configured schema for that node (if any), concatenated with the name of the node.

For example, if you have configured a [custom schema](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/building-a-dbt-project/building-models/using-custom-schemas) for a subdirectory in your `dbt_project.yml` file:

```yaml
models:
  my_project:
    marketing:
      +schema: marketing
```

Then the asset key for a model named "some_model" will be `marketing/some_model`. If you have not configured a custom schema, then the asset key will simply be `some_model`.

For sources, the default asset key will be the name of the source concatenated with the name of the source table.

For example, the source table defined in the following `sources.yaml` will be `jaffle_shop/orders`:

```yaml
sources:
  - name: jaffle_shop
    tables:
      - name: orders
```

> ### Adding a prefix to AssetKeys

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Adding a prefix to asset keys
```

Reviewer: Just saw your note about this section feeling misplaced - I agree.

What if we moved this up to come after the **dbt models and software-defined assets** section? This section relates to assets themselves, so it feels like that might be a good place for it instead of at the end. Especially with the title `Understanding asset keys`.

Thoughts?

---
title: Dagster with dbt
description: Dagster can orchestrate dbt alongside other technologies.
---

## Using dbt with Dagster

Dagster orchestrates dbt alongside _other technologies_, so you can combine dbt with Spark, Python, etc. in a single workflow. Dagster's software-defined asset abstractions make it simple to define data assets that depend on specific dbt models, or to define the computation required to compute the sources that your dbt models depend on.

> This guide focuses on how to work with `dbt` models through the SDA framework, which we recommend for most use cases. Dagster's SDAs allow you to map multiple

Reviewer: Unfinished sentence?

## dbt Models and Software-Defined Assets

A software-defined asset contains an asset key, a set of upstream asset keys, and an operation that is responsible for computing the asset from its upstream dependencies. Models defined in a `dbt` project are conceptually similar to Dagster's software-defined assets.

- The asset key for a dbt model is (by default) the name of the model.
- The upstream dependencies of a dbt model are defined with `ref` or `source` calls within the model's definition.

> - The computation required to compute the asset from its upstream dependencies is the sql within the model's definition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The computation required to compute the asset from its upstream dependencies is the SQL within the model's definition.
```

These similarities make it natural to want to interact with dbt models as SDAs, making it possible to

### Loading `dbt` models from a dbt project

> For smaller dbt projects, where compilation time is not a concern, the simplest way to load your dbt assets into Dagster is the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For smaller dbt projects where compilation time is not a concern, the simplest way to load your dbt assets into Dagster is the following:
```

Removing an unneeded comma

```python
from dagster_dbt import load_assets_from_dbt_project

dbt_assets = load_assets_from_dbt_project(
    project_dir="path/to/dbt/project"
)
```

> The `load_assets_from_dbt_project` function will compile your dbt project, parse the metadata that dbt provides, and generate a set of software-defined assets that reflect the models in the project. These assets will all share the same underlying operation, which will invoke dbt to run the models represented by the loaded assets.

Reviewer: Suggesting an alternative formatting approach to break this up and make it more readable:

```suggestion
The `load_assets_from_dbt_project` function:

1. Compiles your dbt project,
2. Parses the metadata that dbt provides, and
3. Generates a set of software-defined assets that reflect the models in the project. These assets will share the same underlying operation, which will invoke dbt to run the models represented by the loaded assets.
```

> ### Loading `dbt` models from a dbt manifest.json file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Loading dbt models from a dbt manifest.json file
```

Let's keep additional formatting out of headings :)

For larger projects, the overhead involved in recompiling your entire project whenever your repository needs to be loaded may become a concern. In these cases, it's possible to load

```python
import json
from dagster_dbt import load_assets_from_dbt_manifest

dbt_assets = load_assets_from_dbt_manifest(
    json.load("path/to/dbt/manifest.json", encoding="utf8"),
)
```

Note: if you make any changes to your dbt project that change the structure of the project (such as changing the dependencies of a model or adding a new one), you'll need to regenerate your manifest file for those changes to be reflected in Dagster.

## Adding a resource

> In order to function, these assets require a "dbt" resource, which will be responsible for firing off dbt cli commands. The `dagster-dbt` integration provides the `dbt_cli_resource` to make this easy. This resource can be configured with CLI flags that will be passed i

Reviewer: > In order to function, these assets require a "dbt" resource, which will be responsible for firing off dbt cli commands.

1. Are the quotes for `"dbt"` necessary? What's the purpose of having them here?
2. As CLI is an acronym, I feel like it should be in all caps. Is there a reason it wouldn't be?

Author: I put the quotes there to hint that the resource itself needs to be named "dbt", but I don't think it's necessary so I'll remove them. No real reason to make cli lowercase either

> In order to function, these assets require a "dbt" resource, which will be responsible for firing off dbt cli commands. The `dagster-dbt` integration provides the `dbt_cli_resource` to make this easy. This resource can be configured with CLI flags that will be passed i

Reviewer: > This resource can be configured with CLI flags that will be passed i

Unfinished sentence?

> You can configure this resource and add it to your dbt assets:

Reviewer: This comes across as an incomplete sentence - maybe just adding `by` to the end before the colon would help. That links the copy to the example that follows.

```python
from dagster import with_resources
from dagster_dbt import dbt_cli_resource

dbt_assets = with_resources(
    load_assets_from_dbt_project(...),
    {
        "dbt": dbt_cli_resource.configured(
            {"project_dir": "path/to/dbt_project"}
        )
    }
)
```

## Scheduling dbt jobs

> Once you have your dbt assets, it's simple to define a job that runs some or all of these assets on a schedule

Reviewer: I'm sorta against including words like 'simple' or 'easy' in documentation because for some folks, it *isn't* easy and I don't want them to be frustrated. It also tends to make copy wordier than it needs to be.

What about something like:

> Once your dbt assets are ready, you can define a job that runs some or all of the assets on a schedule:

```python
from dagster import ScheduleDefinition, define_asset_job

run_everything_job = define_asset_job("run_everything", selection="*")

# only my_model and its children
run_something = define_asset_job("run_something", selection="my_model*")

@repository
def my_repo():
    return [
        dbt_assets,
        ScheduleDefinition(
            job=run_something,
            cron_schedule="@daily",
        ),
        ScheduleDefinition(
            job=run_everything,
            cron_schedule="@weekly",
        )
    ]
```

See (docs for running stuff on a schedule) to learn more.

## Defining Downstream Dependencies

> Dagster allows you to define assets that are downstream of specific dbt models. One property of dbt based assets is that the external tool (in this case, dbt), handles the loading/storing of those models internally, rather than Dagster directly storing/loading the tables that are updated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dagster allows you to define assets that are downstream of specific dbt models. One property of dbt-based assets is that the external tool - in this case, dbt - handles the loading/storing of those models internally, rather than Dagster directly storing/loading the tables that are updated.
```

> This means that there's a range of ways that we might want to load a dbt model as input to a python function. For example, you might want to load the contents of the table as a Pandas dataframe, or you might want to load the contents into a PySpark session.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This means that there's a range of ways to load a dbt model as input to a Python function. For example, you might want to load the contents as a Pandas dataframe or into a PySpark session.
```

I wanted to tighten this up a bit. I'm not sure if my removing `... of the table` changes the meaning or accuracy of this sentence, but given there wasn't a mention of `tables` before, I thought it was okay. Feel free to put it back/tinker if I'm wrong.

To define exactly how you want models to be loaded, you can specify an input manager on the downstream asset.

```python
from dagster import asset

@asset(
    ins={"model_name": AssetIn(input_manager_key="pandas_dbt_input_manager")}
)
def my_downstream_asset(model_name):
    return
```

> ## Customizing AssetKeys

Reviewer: This comment is applicable to the mention of AssetKeys in this section as a whole.

What is/are AssetKey(s) referring to, here? Is it the concept of an asset key *or* a literal object or value you'd see in code? Ex:

- Speaking generally/conceptually: "Each asset has an asset key..."
- Referring to a literal object or value in code: "The `AssetKey`..."

Author: It's referring to both but I think speaking conceptually is better in this case

> Dagster automatically generates AssetKeys for each dbt model in the project, as well as any of the sources used by these models.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dagster automatically generates AssetKeys for each dbt model in the project and the sources used by the models.
```

The default asset key for a model will be the model name, and the default name for a source in the project will be the name of the source alongside the name of the source table.

> For example, a model defined in `my_model.sql` will be given the asset key `my_model`, while the source table defined in the following `sources.yaml` will be `jaffle_shop/orders`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, a model defined in `my_model.sql` will be given the asset key `my_model`, while the source table defined in the following `sources.yaml` will be `jaffle_shop/orders`:
```

Replaced the period with a colon to connect the copy to the example that follows.

```yaml
sources:
  - name: jaffle_shop
    tables:
      - name: orders
```

You may have a different organization scheme for your asset keys, and therefore want to generate different keys for your dbt models.

### Adding a prefix to AssetKeys

A common pattern is to use the prefix of an asset key to indicate what database an asset is stored in. For example, you might want all of your assets stored in Snowflake to start with the prefix "snowflake". To add a prefix to the models generated by your dbt project, you can pass in a "key_prefix" argument to either the load_assets_from_dbt_manifest or load_assets_from_dbt_project functions.

```python
dbt_assets = load_assets_from_dbt_project(
    ..., key_prefix="snowflake"
)
```

> This prefix will apply only to the models. If you want to apply a prefix to the source keys that dagster generates:

Reviewer: It looks like this didn't get applied.

```python

dbt_assets = load_assets_from_dbt_project(
    ..., key_prefix="snowflake", source_key_prefix="snowflake"
)
```

### Fully customizing AssetKeys

> Sometimes, you want to have full control over what asset key you generate. You can do this by setting the `node_info_to_asset_key` parameter to a function that takes a dictionary of dbt node info (parsed from the dbt manifest) and returns an asset key. This dictionary contains (link to doc).

Author: I decided to remove this section because it's a bit of a niche feature and takes up a lot of space compared to other parts

## Adding a resource

> In order to be executed, these assets require a dbt resource, which will be responsible for firing off dbt cli commands. The `dagster-dbt` integration provides the `dbt_cli_resource` for this purpose. This resource can be configured with CLI flags that will be passed into every dbt invocation.

Reviewer: Also, what assets is `these assets` referring to? Should this be something like `Dagster assets` to be more specific? Or should we just drop `these`?

> In order to be executed, these assets require a dbt resource, which will be responsible for firing off dbt cli commands. The `dagster-dbt` integration provides the `dbt_cli_resource` for this purpose. This resource can be configured with CLI flags that will be passed into every dbt invocation.

Reviewer: Gotcha - thanks for clarifying!

What about something like this, which specifies the assets being discussed?: `Assets loaded from dbt require a dbt resource, which is responsible for firing off dbt CLI commands.`

    ]
```

See the docs on [running jobs on a schedule](https://docs.dagster.io/concepts/partitions-schedules-sensors/schedules#running-the-scheduler) to learn more.

## Defining Downstream Dependencies

Dagster allows you to define assets that are downstream of specific dbt models. One property of dbt-based assets is that the external tool - in this case, dbt - handles storing each model in the database internally, rather than Dagster directly storing the tables that are updated.

This means that there's a range of ways to load a dbt model as input to a Python function. For example, you might want to load the contents as a Pandas dataframe or into a PySpark session. You can specify this loading behavior on each downstream asset. For example, if you wanted to consume a dbt model named `my_dbt_model` as a Pandas DataFrame, that would look something like the following:

```python
@asset(
    ins={"my_dbt_model": AssetIn(input_manager_key="pandas_df_manager")}
)
def my_downstream_asset(my_dbt_model):
    # my_dbt_model is a Pandas DataFrame
    return my_dbt_model.where(foo="bar")
```

> ### Defining your IOManager

Reviewer: I also just noticed this is an H3, so it sits under the **Defining downstream dependencies** section. Is that correct or should this be its own section?

> ### Defining your IOManager

Author: this is correct, as you generally need to define an IOManager if you want to load the contents of a dbt asset in a downstream dependency

and no worries on the nitpicks, appreciate the attention to detail :)

> The implementation of your IOManager will depend on what python object you want to use to represent your table, as well as what database you're loading from. A simple IOManager implementation that loads data from a dbt-managed table into a Pandas DataFrame would look somthing like the following:

Author: added some clarification re: the database question
